# cancer_incidence_models
Several competing hypotheses exist for the mechanisms by which pre-cancerous mutant cells in the body progress to various stages of cancer.
Conventionally, cancer is seen as a multi-stage process of sequential accumulation of mutations at its simplest; given competition between cells for space and resources within the tissue, mutations that allow for better growth of the carrier provide a natural selective advantage. From this premise, the current view has developed in terms of the exact evolutionary processes that are involved in this so-called "somatic" evolution of cancerous phenotypes. However, there is still one aspect of the process that hasn't entered mainstream consideration, which involves population-level heterogeneity and subtle sources of differences in selective forces depending on the environment.
Population-level heterogeneity refers to the fact that individuals with reasonably similar genetic backgrounds can still differ in their physiology, and these differences could lead to the same mutations having markedly different selective outcomes even within a population. The differences could come from environmental cues, lifestyle habits, and as is being found increasingly, behavioural patterns which impinge on growth factor signalling.

The simulation models in this project seek to capture the systematic effects of this heterogeneity on patterns of cancer incidence on a population level. Thanks to registries like the SEER and IACR databases, excellent data are now available for epidemiological trends in cancer incidence for various populations across the world, across cancer types. These data can now be used to test the predictions generated by models assuming various forms of cancer progression and various properties of population heterogeneity. With this basic introduction, it will now be possible to follow the various details of the models.
